I am here in Los Angeles and
I'm feeling the sunshine.
I'm about to go meet someone
who's at the top of the A-list.
She is now making her own list of who
and what really matters.
So many people came back stage to
tell me, do you know there's
a line around the corner
and I didn't and now I'm scared.
Welcome to Shine Away,
part summit, part sisterhood,
where founder Reese Witherspoon
brings together A-list
stars, authors
and innovators in a celebration
of ambition, community
and the power of women's stories.
What does it take to be
the main character in
your own story?
I think we all know if
you're over a certain age,
you realize no one's coming to save you.
You are the hero of your story.
Witherspoon built a
billion dollar company
with a deceptively simple idea.
Women's stories sell
and she's expanded that
vision into a storytelling
ecosystem spanning
books, film, television,
lifestyle, and live events.
The thing about risk is when you do it
and you kind of get away with stuff
and it works out, you
keep taking more risks.
I get excited about the challenge
of trying something new.
Few people have adapted
to Hollywood's reinventions,
quite like Reese Witherspoon.
Never thought I'd be here my whole life.
Now, amid streaming
slowdowns, shifting audiences
and shrinking budgets, she's determined
there's still more to her story.
I thought probably like
10 years ago, I was like,
I really, I know I'm
here for something else.
I'm not here to just be an
actor and not that that's a bad thing.
Yeah, just, well, are
we, are we rolling?
Because this is good
stuff. Yeah, it's I, okay.
Vibe check How you feeling?
It's kind of overwhelming
'cause it's the, it's like
the physical manifestation
of a dream that I've had for a long time.
But now here we are and
all these people are here.
What are the big themes that you want
the audience to take home.
I think a big part
of why I'm excited about
today is community.
I think we all crave it as human beings.
We don't connect as much,
particularly in this modern world
where we're all very occupied with things
that are going on online and
our daily problems, you know?
And I think the idea
of connecting over like-minded
ideas is just something
people need to experience, you know?
And there's something about
it coming to life today
that's been really emotional for me.
Because I imagined this.
I did a whole exercise
when I started this company
where I wrote down what
I wanted it to look like.
And a big part of it
was having this moment
of people actually seeing
each other in one space.
You got, I mean, you
got emotional up there.
I know. Well, women came
from 30 different states from
other countries to meet
their favorite authors,
to be inspired by entrepreneurs
and women in healthcare.
And it's not lost on me.
I feel really lucky to be
a woman in this position
to gather other women
and help, you know, enhance their lives.
Even if it's only just for a day
or even if you have little life
motto or takeaway.
Witherspoon spent three
decades in Hollywood building her
career, playing women
who were underestimated
by everyone else.
Elle Woods, Tracy Flick, Cheryl
Strayed, and June Carter.
Looking back on your career, you seem
to pick the perfect roles
at the perfect time.
How would you describe your instincts?
A lot of the movies that
I made in my early twenties
and my late twenties
are sort of the movies
that made me who I was.
I was always really clear
about what I wanted to express.
Even I remember doing Legally Blonde
and thinking, this isn't
a story about a ditzy girl
who goes to Harvard.
It's actually about a woman
who's very substantive
but is unapologetically feminine
and the two can exist at the same time.
You got into Harvard Law?
What, like, it's hard.
You didn't have to be
strident to look a certain way
to be considered academic or serious
and also had fun with feminism.
It did look like you were
having fun. I had so much fun.
We had fun. I know. And it's been,
that role changed my life in so many ways.
And as she built her
career playing strong women,
Witherspoon was equally
strategic offscreen, watching
who had influence and who didn't.
I dread reading scripts
that have no women
involved in their creation
because inevitably I get to
that part where the girl turns
to the guy and she goes, what
do we do now? So what do we
do now?
So what do we do now? What do we do
now?
Now, do you know any woman
in any crisis situation
who has
any woman in any crisis
who has absolutely no idea what to do?
You set out to create a company
that would change the
conversation for women?
Does it feel like you're going forward?
I think it feels like we
are taking the right strides
forward, but even if you
look at the statistics,
it's not 50/50.
There's still a deficit
of female directors,
a deficit in screenwriting.
But it's, it's making meaningful change.
I mean, the numbers, the
percentages are, are jumping
and I think the consciousness
around it has totally changed.
It's like the lights are on,
you can't pretend that you don't know
that we aren't hiring women
and people of color for these jobs.
So there's definitely
more of an acceptance
that stories aren't just need to be told
by the same 20 filmmakers
over and over again.
How much progress do you
feel you've made so far?
I think there's been a lot
of progress since I started.
I really started, the first
iteration of this company was
around 2011.
It was just a wildly different time.
There wasn't streaming, there
wasn't instant gratification
with social media.
We really got ramped up around 2016.
In 2011, Reese founded Pacific Standard,
a production company
championing women's voices
with films like Gone Girl and Wild.
By 2016, she'd scaled that
vision into Hello Sunshine,
a full fledged media company
behind Big Little Lies.
I feel so ashamed for saying this,
but being a mother,
it's not enough for me.
The Morning Show. The part you
guys never seem to realize is
that you don't have the power anymore.
And her wildly popular book club.
Your book club now has a
massive influence over the
publishing industry.
By some estimates it's
bigger than Oprah's.
How do you view that power?
I have a sort of a tricky
relationship with the word power.
You know, it doesn't
feel like power to me.
It's, to me it's, there's
definitely a feeling of
maybe influencing people towards literacy
by shining a light on things that I think,
our main metric at Hello Sunshine
is like, is it shareable?
Because I wanna build
community around reading.
I don't want you to
read it and feel siloed
and you don't wanna have a conversation.
I love that idea and that
energy of people sharing things
and talking about them and
creating conversation.
And my original idea was,
what I really dreamed about
was taking the book club out
of your living room and into the,
this global community online.
And in some ways this today
is like taking it back down
to its essential elements.
And having so many authors
here is such a thrill for me.
'cause I am, those are
my rock stars. Yeah.
Authors are my rock stars.
You've got books, you've
got podcasts, movies, tv,
obviously live events.
What era is Hello Sunshine in
now?
Well, I think we're beyond
the beginning, right?
One of my favorite things about being part
of a company like this
is it's ever evolving.
So it feels like it's always growing.
And then we're also,
we're young enough and,
and new enough that we
can pivot. What was the
hardest lesson you had to learn
and how did you push through it?
I think the hardest lesson for me was,
even if you have great creative ideas,
it doesn't mean you have the
business plan to back it up.
So I've learned a lot of
hard lessons in business.
You know, if certain
verticals don't work, you have
to really look at them critically.
Even though you think it's a good idea,
it doesn't mean it is,
and it doesn't mean that you
should stop taking risks,
but you need to understand
that you can't continue
to risk if things aren't
providing economic value.
So it's this constant battle
in my mind between the art
of things and the commerce of things.
I came from the middle of America
and I loved big poppy public contact,
like popular films, and
I loved television shows.
I watched hours of it after school.
So I've always gone to that place of
how does this speak to people?
How does this make people feel?
And I do think there's always
a world where you can do well
and do good at the same time
As Hello Sunshine found its footing,
so did a new Hollywood trend, a wave
of celebrities building out
their own media empires.
LeBron James, Kevin Hart, the Duke
and Duchess of Sussex,
all betting they could turn
star power into storytelling
power, but few have shined
as bright as Witherspoon's.
Hello Sunshine. In 2021,
it sold in a headline
grabbing $900 million deal.
Your company sold for
almost a billion dollars.
How do you live up to the expectations,
the public's expectations,
investors' expectations?
One of the main things that
kept occurring to me when
I was in the process of
selling the company was not,
not necessarily how it
made me feel validated,
but I thought it was really
important that a company
that was about female
storytelling mattered.
The value of it mattered
because it's such a reflection
in this world about do we
care and invest in women's stories?
And I, I'm so proud of
everything we've created.
My team is impeccable.
They work so hard,
but they also wake up
working on this mission
that they truly believe.
And that's, that's like all
I could have ever hoped for,
is just to create a company
that makes me proud and makes me think.
The women who came before
me would be very proud of
If the near billion dollar
sale marked a high point.
Four years later, the
industry looks very different.
Budgets tightened, green lights slowed,
and Hollywood is asking harder
questions about what wins
and why. To see
how Hello Sunshine is
translating its current
vision into strategy,
I headed to their LA headquarters
to meet the women at the
heart of its leadership team.
It's hard not to say Hello Sunshine when
I walk through a door.
Octavia Spencer
always says "Hello Sunshine"
As Hollywood shifts,
Hello Sunshine has seen
changes of its own.
This year, longtime CEO
Sarah Harden stepped down.
Maureen Polo, who previously
led the company's book club
podcasts and live events
stepped up to the job.
So first of all, congrats on the new job.
What's first on your to-do list?
What's first on our to-do
list is to really work closely
with the other executives
in my leadership team
and really align everybody
internally on the,
on what's happening in the
industry around us right now
and in the broader marketplace
that we're all playing
in. Working alongside
Maureen is Lauren
Neustadter who leads the film
and television division, steering
Hello Sunshine's creative
output across Hollywood's
shifting landscape.
How would you describe
Hello Sunshine's place in
Hollywood right now?
I think we're in a really
exciting, comfortable,
confident place in Hollywood right now.
I think we know what we do
and we're so proud to do it.
Everything we do centers
on strong female characters
and in unconventional ways.
We showcase them as the
heroes of their own stories.
There's so many different
parts of the Hello Sunshine pie.
Is the goal here to just make
good TV show and a good movie?
Or is the goal to turn this
into a bigger business?
Well, I think the goal is absolutely
to turn it into a bigger business.
And that's why we have so
many unique opportunities.
I mean, look, it really
started with Book Club even
before Hello Sunshine existed.
It was all about Reese loving these books
and celebrating these books
and engaging with the audience.
And then when I came into work on film
and television, it was
about how do we actually
build a bridge between some
of the book picks and film
and television so that we
were bringing them to life
for our audience and continuing the
journey of loving a book.
In theory, it all connects
the book club drives
development, which
becomes, shows, podcasts
and live events that loop
the audience back in.
Even lifestyle brands like
the Home Edit fit into
that ecosystem, extending
the Hello Sunshine world into
people's homes. For a wider
lens on Hello Sunshine strategy
and what it reveals about Hollywood today,
I turned to Lucas Shaw,
a longtime reporter on Hollywood's
power players. When Hello
Sunshine sold for a billion dollars,
was that like a mic drop moment?
Yeah. I mean, that was
at the apex of this sort
of streaming optimism
and you saw a bunch of
celebrity production companies
and a bunch of production
companies in general raising money
selling, and I think the number just
caught everyone off guard.
But it probably was also a sign that this,
this bubble was finally gonna
start letting some air out.
Would this still happen now?
Not at that price.
I mean, you don't see a lot
of production companies
being bought and sold
and certainly not at those valuations.
You know, there was so much excitement
and enthusiasm during the streaming boom
and then starting around early
to mid 2022, that all stops
and every company starts
laying people off.
They start cutting their budgets
and it has never really
bounced back since then.
What about if you're Reese Witherspoon?
Reese Witherspoon, the actress,
I'm not worried about her at all.
Reese Witherspoon the producer
also in pretty good shape.
I mean, I think the biggest
talent has an advantage
on everyone because
they are seen as a brand
and bankable in some way
that people still wanna work with them.
Reese Witherspoon, the founder
of Hello Sunshine, that's
where the picture gets a
little more complicated.
There's a sense that
Hollywood still hasn't recovered
from the downturn.
Has the content bubble popped
and how is that changing the strategy?
I think definitely there's
a shift is in a market,
things are contracting for sure,
but I think it's gonna
get back to a, a business
that's really based on great storytelling.
That's kind of a great
opportunity to refine our ideas.
There was so much going on
before that was just being bought
and made and bought and made,
and it was, it was about, it
was about time that we needed
to sort of get to the real
premium content again.
So how is Hello
Sunshine really doing?
Well as a production company?
It's doing okay.
You know, I think they
have a better chance
of selling projects
than many of their peers
because they have a track
record because they have Reese
because they have professional management,
but they haven't produced like
a slew of hits. For it to be
as valuable as it wants to be
and to grow into something
that's more than a production
company, it has to have
these other businesses.
I mean, it can't just be
making film and television
because that's not a
great business right now
Is Hello Sunshine profitable.
We are a profitable business.
And you know, I think that
at the end of the day,
the conversation, our
conversation keeps going back
to the questioning around,
you know, hello Sunshine
as a healthy business.
And I get frustrated by that sometimes
because it feels like
we are constantly under,
you know, a microscope.
I think the entertainment
industry has gone
through tough times in
the last couple of years,
and I think that those that thrive
and those that scale are
those that have not had
to pivot their mission and
at the core of what they do.
And at our core, we are a company
that centers female stories.
And because we've never had to
pivot away from what we are,
we have this really incredible
foundation that allows us
to continue scaling.
You know, on top of it, there's
not many companies in the
last couple of years who
have added new businesses.
It's not about telling
people come to us.
We have to be able to go to them.
And if that means
podcasts, great if that, if
that means television shows
are more popular in the movies
at a certain time, we can sort of
drive the ship towards that.
So I feel lucky that we're nimble.
Would you say it's all fully clicked
and if not, what's it
gonna take to get there?
I love the question. Do you
think it, it's fully clicked.
I think in 2025, going into 2026,
I feel like nobody can actually say
everything is clicked, right?
I think we have so much
that is really clicking in such
a powerful, meaningful way.
We've launched a new Gen Z
platform for the next generation
of girls called Sunny.
Sunny is Sunny is Sunny, is
Sunny is
for the girls by the girls.
Do you guys feel empowered?
And when you look at what
Lauren Neustadter business is
doing in TV and film, we're really looking
for connection points for that next
generation of consumers too.
That through line of
connection shows up everywhere
and drives what the team is planning next.
So let's talk about the upcoming slate.
Well, there's a lot to be excited about.
I mean, first and foremost,
L, which is our show
that is in the world of
Legally Blonde Reese is really
incredibly prescient and
also very sensitive.
I think she thinks a lot
about the next generation.
So I think she was
seeing what was going on
with young women today
and the messages that were
being sent to young women.
And she called me one day
and she said, I think we need
to see Elle Woods in high school.
And I was like, oh my goodness,
this is very exciting. Wait,
she's coming.
Okay. Hi.
We just wanted to tell
you that you don't have
to audition anymore
because you got the
part you're Elle Woods.
Really, you're Elle Woods yeah. What?
Yeah, it's part of, you know,
conversations still 20 years later,
I hope you're gonna
teach her the bend and snap
because it needs to be perfect.
I mean, of course. So you bend and snap.
Also on the slate, a new chapter
with Legally Blonde Three,
an adaptation of book club.
Pick the Nightingale and a
big swing with Polly Pocket
after Barbie proved a toy
can capture the zeitgeist.
Hollywood does do a lot of
new takes on old stories.
Why do that? Why not
just create new stories?
You know, I will be honest
and say, I think when
you're leaning on IP,
it will always feel a little bit safer
because you know that there's an audience
that's engaging with it.
But even with a strong
slate ahead, Hello
Sunshine faces the same headwinds
as the rest of Hollywood.
With future generations shifting
to YouTube and social video
and new technologies like
AI starting to reshape
how stories are made
and consumed. It's the
most powerful imagination
engine ever built.
How is big tech changing Hollywood
for better and for worse?
Hello Sunshine is spending a lot
of our time thinking about big tech.
We're thinking about AI,
we're leveraging AI in some
really thoughtful ways,
but I think what's really important
to think about from a Hello
Sunshine perspective is
that people and human experiences are core
to everything we do at this company.
Our mission is to center female stories.
You cannot use technology
to center their stories,
to tell their stories, but
what you can use technology
for is to optimize the way in
which we build those stories.
I mean, OpenAI is really
testing the limits with Sora.
Huge controversy around this.
I mean, someone like Reese Witherspoon
who has contributed decades to the film
and television industry,
should they just be able to use
No, they should never
be able to do that.
That's, that should never
happen. It should never happen.
And again, it goes back
to I we think about AI
as enhancements and optimizers
and not as the center of the story.
They're never going to replace humans.
I actually also believe
that the younger generation,
they care about human connection.
They care about people, they want to know
who the humans are behind the work.
The world is so different
today than when you were
playing Elle Woods.
It's dominated by algorithms
and AI and social media.
How do you imagine your career
might be different if you
were just starting out now? Oh my
gosh, Emily, I just,
I don't think my career would be possible.
It's a different world.
I see young people
and I have so much compassion
for young performers
and actors because they
have to be the producer,
the director, they have to shoot
their own videos, they have
to market themselves.
That's not something
that I understood when I
was 20 years old.
It was something, there
was an entire apparatus
to market materials, so it's
a different challenging time.
That said, the incredibly
talented people will
always rise, right?
Even in a, in a glut of information,
real talent survives and thrives.
What does success look like
right now? Is it viewership?
Is it awards? Is it making
money? Is it critical
acclaim? For me,
success looks like pride
in the end product making,
something that we feel really proud of
that our audiences love.
I think critics will always
have their own opinions,
but I'm more interested
in what audiences think.
Are they engaging with the
material? Are they coming back?
If it's The Morning Show, are they dying
to watch the next episode?
And if the answer is yes, that is success.
Behind the Pink neon
and the rainbow colored
bookshelves is a company trying
to rewire how a studio connects
with fans every day
across screens, shelves,
and real world stages.
What do you think is next?
I think, I think we're seeing women
getting the economic empowerment.
And also now we have this empirical data
that women's stories matter.
Women, female artistry matters.
The market is responding, right?
Because women consume media,
they're on these platforms
really liking and
and proselytizing on social media
about the things they love.
They're marketing these products
and I think it's, it's really nice
to see the acknowledgement
by different industries that
acknowledging women as consumers
is actually good business.
You found a way to embrace
femininity, but also power
and agency.
How do you imagine that journey being
different for girls today?
Do you have any advice for our daughters?
I think we have to trust our daughters.
They are listening. I think
we have to lead by example
and do the very best we
can to, to walk the walk.
I know, I, I try really
hard with my company to show
a whole dynamic spectrum
of the female experience
because if we normalize
that, there are all kinds
of different women doing,
making different life choices.
Whether you want kids, you
don't want kids, you, you,
you wanna be a career woman, you
don't wanna be a career woman.
You struggle to make it
wait, you, you, you worry.
you question about your origins, right?
When we see more stories,
we become more compassionate
about each other as humans.
I have three sons and a daughter
and so it's just crazy seeing
how life is different for them. How old is
your daughter.
She's five. I think
it'll shift. I really do.
I think it'll shift back to,
I see young people too, kind
of reverting back to this idea
of stripping off all that artifice.
I think it's kind of punk
rock. It's punk rock.
My daughter and I talk about it, I'm
like I think it's kind
of punk rock to not
put a bunch of filters on
yourself. I love it. I love it.
Hashtag no filter.
I've decided I'm gonna
write this thriller
and I'm really likely to have
a great partner, Harlan Coben,
who's just one of the
greatest thriller writers
and a lovely human.
Is this a side of you we
didn't know existed?
Maybe... I contain multitudes.